
[DRAFT]

written on 2026/09/13, Sunday 10:17 AM PST


Recently I left Microsoft after a little less than 5 years.
I joined the company during the tail end of 2021 and amidst the first wave of the pandemic.
After reflecting for over a month since my departure, I have solidified some 
thoughts on my experiences there and will share this here.

Overall my team was very good and stable. Everyone was friendly and my manager
set expectations pretty clearly. This manager at the time will be named manager Alpha.
Alpha was a proactive manager that did a good job helping me when I needed it.
Quickly we built a good working relationship that encompassed of getting medium to
large sized tasks done well before deadlines. In cases where deadlines were at-risk,
Alpha quickly taught me how to interact with product managers and going through
the process of setting expectations and such. 

I learned quite a bit from Alpha as they have been at Microsoft for about 15 years.
The limitless domian knowledge allowed me to leverage this thoughts on certain 
design of features and systems within the product that we were working on. 
Throughout this time, I was also the designated SME for the build system of the
Win32 application. This continued to the end of my time at Microsoft.

While I was the build SME for my team, the team would struggle with some problems
in getting the application build throughout the years. Sometimes when there would be
a change to the build system that lead to build issues that would block developers.
Most of the fixes for these issues were short term. I implemented all sorts of 
different fixes to unblock developers and get everyone back to working on needed
features or bugs. 

Towards the end of 2024, Alpha moved out of the country and I began to lose 
some passion towards the product and project. My performance was still quite good,
but I started questioning my place in the company. This was mostly due to the 
perpetual fire-fighting of build issues and being one of the few people to be
doing code reviews. At the end of 2025, Alpha decided that working from the other
side of the world was untenable and left the company. As a result, I got a new
manager which I will name Charles in  this blog post. Charles was interesting
and a sister manager to Alpha. They joined the organization about 6 months after
I joined the company. 

While working at a large company like Microsoft, everything that you work on 
turns into something that you get looped into
for maintenance work. This leads to the stacking of responsibilities and as you
continue to stay at the company you will start to get crushed by the workload
if you do not have a manager that properly handles hand offs for you. 

This was a crucial part of why I left the company. Piling responsibilities along 
with the pay not keeping up, I was seeing the writing on the wall for
me from the start of 2026. 




